[singing voice] Aniplex.
[gasping]
[whooshing]
I'll do it if it means
no one has to cry.
[Aimer's "Brave Shine"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Aimer singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Brave shine ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Stay the night ♪♪
♪♪ You save my life ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]
♪♪ ♪♪
♪♪ Your brave shine ♪♪
[footsteps approaching]
[Archer scoffs]
You sure took your time
getting here,
Shirou Emiya.
Yeah, I finally understand.
There's no way there were two
of those pendants.
‐ Originally it‐‐
‐ [Archer] That's right.
You see,
after your life was spared,
you carried it for the rest
of your life.
A unique memento that belonged
to Rin Tohsaka's father.
A heroic spirit cannot
be summoned without a catalyst,
but Rin Tohsaka didn't have one
to use in the invocation.
That's why she assumed‐‐
wrongly, of course‐‐
that she had summoned
a servant at random.
But no heroic spirit
is ever called upon by chance.
A link must exist between
the summoner and the spirit.
But wait.
If Rin had no catalyst herself,
then‐‐
[Archer] Yes.
That piece of the puzzle
was provided by
the heroic spirit being summoned
and not the summoner.
[Saber] Where heroic spirits
are held,
time does not exist.
Those from the past
are no different
from those yet to come.
Which means...
[Archer] Right.
It means it's quite possible
to summon a heroic spirit
from the future.
[Shirou] Archer.
Where is Tohsaka?
I gave her to Shinji Matou
when he stopped by.
You did what?
‐ [Lancer] Take it easy, kid.
‐ [both gasping]
[Lancer] Just leave
the little lady to me.
Are you sure?
[Lancer] Those are
the master's orders.
The only reason I've been
working with you this whole time
was to keep her alive.
But I have to admit,
it's actually been kind of nice.
I rarely enjoy the tasks
I'm given.
This was an exception.
So why don't you let me
look after her for now?
Once this is over,
you and I can go back
to being enemies.
[gasping]
[scoffs]
[Shirou] Take care of Tohsaka.
[Lancer] Sure thing.
[Saber] Lancer,
I shall remain here
for the time being.
Seriously?
But the little lady
is your master now.
[Saber] I know that.
However, I choose to stay
and bear witness to this battle.
[scoffs]
Is that so?
Have it your way.
[Archer] Bear witness, huh?
That's good to hear.
I wouldn't want you interfering.
If you did,
I'd have severed my contract
with Rin for nothing.
No.
No matter what happens,
I will not stand between you
and Shirou.
In exchange for this,
answer me.
Why exactly is killing him
so important to you?
I'm surprised you even have
to ask.
Neither of us can accept
each other as we are.
Sorry to disappoint you,
but it's as simple as that.
[Saber] That cannot be true.
You're the very embodiment
of the ideals and dreams
of Shirou Emiya.
You are both the same.
How can you reject yourself?
Unlike you,
I didn't become a heroic spirit
entirely on my own merits.
I simply traded one afterlife
for another.
I'm a guardian.
Nothing more.
A guardian?
Now go.
[gasps]
[grunts]
Ooh, you look so scary.
[chuckles]
You may wanna be nice
to me for a change.
Know what I mean?
Or have you not yet realized
the position you're in?
Yeah, well,
look who's talking.
It's you who's in
for a rude awakening.
Oh, drop the tough act,
would ya?
It's pathetic.
[grunts]
You're hopeless.
I should have known
you have a thick skull.
Ah, there.
You're giving up,
aren't you?
So does that mean that
you've finally come around?
You've accepted
that you're mine?
[Shinji chuckles]
Damn.
Nothing hotter than a pair
of perfectly toned legs.
[grunts]
[Shinji] That'll make
torturing you all the sweeter.
[blow lands]
Ow!
Hmm?
[blow lands]
[groans]
[shouts]
Ow!
Aw!
Ah.
Really sorry about that.
I meant to say stop,
but I punched you instead.
[gasps]
Lancer?
Hey.
But what‐‐what
are you doing here?
Save your breath.
Let's focus on getting you free.
Then you can do what you want.
[Lancer] Stop those idiots
from fighting
or just sneak out and go home.
All the same to me.
[gasps]
Lancer, look out!
Who's there?
[Kirei] That's quite enough,
Lancer.
I instructed you
to work with them.
But I did not tell you
to care about them.
Kirei, you're...
[Saber] A guardian?
But then you're supposed
to be protecting humanity
by serving as a deterrent force.
And if that is the case,
you are a heroic spirit.
That's where you're wrong,
Saber.
Guardians don't
protect humanity.
They're just here
to clean up the mess.
But Archer‐‐
You're right, though.
I suppose I did become a hero.
In fact,
I became a hero of justice.
The kind Shirou Emiya
always wanted to be.
[grunts]
[Saber] A hero of justice?
Yes, and that's what opened
my eyes
to the fatal error
of this failed reality.
The fact of the matter is,
that man's life is worthless.
[Saber] A life with no value?
[Archer] None.
I'm sure you understand.
You of all people know
what it's like
to want to change the past.
Take back the choices
you've made.
‐ [Shirou] Saber?
‐ What?
Do you mean to tell me
that you never asked her
what her wish was?
Why she wants the Holy Grail
so badly
that she would submit
to this pointless bloodbath?
[exhales]
[Archer] Allow me
to fill you in.
‐ You see, she's‐‐
‐ [Saber] Enough!
Shirou.
I did want the Grail.
It alone can grant me my wish.
The chance to undo
a decision I made.
To undo that mistake.
To alter the course
that led Britain to ruin.
I could not die.
Not yet, at least.
That is why I need
to win the Grail.
I failed to reach my ideals.
And I should never
have become king.
But you are different.
For you
are Shirou Emiya's ideals.
You represent the realization.
Is that what you think I am?
Indeed,
I became the so‐called "hero
of justice" I had longed for,
but all I got in return
was a life of regrets.
[Archer] In life I allied
with the deterrent force.
In death I became
the deterrent force
as a guardian of humanity...
Challenging those who disrupted
the balance of the world.
I did whatever I was ordered
to do.
I killed and I killed.
I killed without ceasing.
I killed until
I finally stopped caring.
Every life I took meant
thousands more would survive.
I fought over and over whenever
I was needed.
Again...
And again...
And again.
Before long,
I learned that no matter
how many lives I took,
there would always be more.
I was not so naive
as to try and achieve a world
without any fighting.
What I truly wanted
was a world without tears.
The kind of world in which
no one I knew ever
had cause to cry.
And that's when it hit me.
The dream that Shirou Emiya had
for this world
was nothing more
than shallow idealism.
[Saber] How can you say that?
[Archer] Because it's impossible
to save everyone.
You might save many,
but you leave the few to die.
There's no way around it.
But I don't have
to tell you that,
do I, Saber?
I found those whose happiness
was destined to die
and bestowed that honor
on them instead.
That's what a hero does.
The ideal he holds true
is mercy incarnate.
Isn't that the point,
after all?
To save as many people
as possible?
So there you have it.
I'd kill one to save many,
just like any hero
of justice would do,
but even though I said I wanted
to forge a world without tears,
I brought more than my share
of despair and suffering.
[grunts]
That is who I am.
The heroic spirit Emiya.
Do you see it now?
Why the world would be so much
better off without him in it?
[gasps]
Now kill yourself,
Shirou Emiya.
[groaning]
[Lancer] I thought my master
was bound to the shadows,
never to show his face.
[Kirei] I have no such policy.
But I am a bit worried.
You're disobeying orders,
Lancer.
I seem to recall telling you
to terminate Archer.
[chuckles]
Yeah, well,
Archer can do away with himself.
What I wanna know is,
did you put the kid up to this?
My motives aren't so sinister.
It's only
a simple business arrangement.
Only one will win
the Holy Grail.
We came
to a mutual understanding.
Yeah, something told me I wasn't
gonna be rid of you that easily,
and now you team up
with someone like Shinji?
I mean,
what's the point?
You actually believe
he's perfectly harmless?
You never change, do you?
Not even
in a situation like this.
That you were such
a promising student
makes this all
the more regrettable.
Hold on, Kotomine.
That talk about how you wanted
to rescue your pupil,
you're saying that was a lie?
[grunts]
It certainly was not.
I've invested a great amount
of time nurturing
this little pawn.
An undertaking that has required
a decade of deceit,
so I'm not about to let her
be stripped from me so easily.
[Kirei] That is why
I entrusted her to you.
‐ For insurance, you see.
‐ [exhales sharply]
Counterfeit priest.
You can play or you can referee,
but you can't do both.
That is so against the rules.
And yet you don't seem to be
at all surprised, Rin.
Perhaps you
were already suspicious of me.
Of course I was.
That said,
it never occurred to me
that I'd been tricked
from the beginning.
From the beginning,
you say?
Yeah, so?
Well, when you use
a phrase like,
"from the beginning,"
I have to wonder if you realize
when that was.
Wait, what are you...
It's possible you're referring
to the beginning
of the current Grail War.
Or maybe you mean the beginning
of the previous war.
[Kirei] You'll have
to forgive me.
I don't suppose
it really matters.
[gasps]
[Rin] I get it.
That's what this is all about.
You killed my father.
Of course it was me.
He was my beloved teacher.
[Kirei] Ambushing him
was child's play.
[Archer] What's wrong?
Now that you know what you are,
why hesitate?
[Saber] Archer.
I do not think
you betrayed your ideals.
Could it be that you
have been betrayed
by the very ideals you meant
to protect?
If that were not so,
you'd never consider atoning
for your sins
by ending your life.
[scoffs]
[laughing]
Oh, you can't be serious.
Atone for my sins?
Really?
Don't be foolish, Saber.
You're right.
I have been betrayed before.
Countless times.
I was always willing
to lay down my life for others.
No one understands
a man like that.
In the end,
I was framed as the mastermind
of the conflict and executed.
But that can't be!
[Saber] That is how you died?
[chuckles]
So if I had any sins
to speak of,
I fully atoned for them
in that moment.
[Archer] I never asked them
for their gratitude.
I didn't want any.
Nor did I wish to be lionized
as a hero.
After all,
what I really wanted
was for everyone to be happy,
but even that simple desire
was denied me in life
as well as death.
I knew that guardians
were essentially
automatic defense mechanisms.
And that those
who become guardians after life
are removed from the cycle
of life and death.
They become mere tools
to protect humanity.
Still, I thought that if‐‐
as a guardian‐‐
I could save someone
who needed help,
it would be worth it.
But I couldn't
have been more wrong!
[Rin] Bastard!
I hope you get lost
in the afterlife!
Even hell would be too good
for you, you monster!
Same with purgatory!
You'd probably get passed around
to all the other sickos!
You're not fit for Heaven,
either!
They'd never take
a eunuch like you!
You'd have to sleep outside
on a bed of thorns!
[gasping]
[Shinji] Kotomine,
I hope you haven't forgotten
that you said I
could have Tohsaka.
It's not like she would be
much use to you or Archer.
Oh, no.
I'm not done with her yet.
[Kirei] Because I require her
to become the Holy Grail for me.
Huh?
Once Archer and Saber
are gone from here,
the time will finally be right,
but until that happens,
I do not want her
wearing herself out.
And that means
we should conclude
this business quickly.
[Kirei] Lancer,
dispose of the trash.
The vessel has no use
for a heart.
[Archer] Guardians
do not save humans.
They only clean up
after humanity's messes.
The only use for their power
is to negate
what's already happened
and sweep away
the bad energy created
by humans.
They are butchers bent
on killing anyone
who threatens humanity
without regard
for whether they're good
or evil.
It's almost funny,
isn't it?
It's no different from when I
was completely powerless.
[Saber] You wish
to save many lives.
Did you?
Throughout your existence,
did your wish even once come
to fruition?
[Archer] No.
Not once.
I mercilessly disposed
of the very people
I had dedicated myself to save,
all because of my stupid ideal
of becoming a hero of justice.
I'm sick of cleaning up
after humanity,
but as a heroic spirit,
I'm cursed to do exactly that
for eternity.
I don't belong
to this existence,
and I know the only way
to make myself disappear.
[Saber] If you kill one who
is destined to become a hero,
then that hero will never
be born.
Is that what you think?
[Archer] I've waited patiently
for that opportunity,
hoping that someday
my chance would come.
[Saber] It will not work,
Archer.
You are a guardian.
The die is already cast.
You are exempt from the bounds
of time.
Even if you do eliminate
this Shirou,
you will still not disappear.
Maybe not,
and yet it's not beyond
the realm of possibility.
That's why I'll destroy not only
his flesh,
I will also kill his spirit.
[Archer] At the very least,
the hero of justice
is a mistake
that will never appear
in this world again.
What's the matter, Shirou?
If my existence offends you,
kill yourself now
and put an end to it!
[sword clangs]
[gasps]
[Saber] Shirou.
Something wrong, Lancer?
Your target is just a child.
Killing her
should be quite easy.
[Lancer] I won't do it.
I cannot obey this time.
You won't?
The only way I'll kill that girl
is if you use a command seal
on me.
[scoffs]
Very well.
You leave me no choice.
[gasps]
I hereby order you
by command seal.
[Rin] I'm sorry, Emiya.
Looks like you'll have
to fight the war without me.
Now kill yourself,
Lancer.
[gasping]
‐ [Lancer groans]
‐ [gasps]
[gags]
[groaning]
[gasping]
[Rin] Lancer!
[crackling]
[Shirou] Archer.
Do you have any regrets?
[Archer] Of course I do.
[gasps]
Well, there you have it.
We aren't anything alike.
What?
'Cause no matter what happens
to me,
I won't regret a thing.
That is the reason that I
can never accept you.
[Shirou] If you really are
my ideal,
then it's up to me to correct
the mistakes
you tarnished it with
and start over again.
That kind of thinking
is where this all began.
Before long,
you'll wake up
and find you've become me.
No.
No way that's ever gonna happen.
Maybe not.
You may yet escape that fate.
But if you refuse to run,
I'm afraid you have
no future at all.
[grunts]
Archer!
[Shirou] Saber,
it's okay.
‐ [gasps]
‐ [Shirou] Thank you.
But I still want you
to stay out of this.
This is my fight,
and I have to finish it.
Trace...
On.
Do you think you can keep up
with my blade works?
If your precision
is even slightly off,
remember that it will mean
your death.
[both grunting]
[blow lands]
[Kalafina's "Ring Your Bell"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Kalafina singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Ring your bell ♪♪